Updates — Configuration Service (#256)
commerce-docs/microsite-commerce-storefront: src/content/docs/merchants/get-started/multistore.mdx

The Sharepoint file structure of a multi-store is shown below. Remove the `.docx` and `.xlsx` extensions for Google Drive files.

<FileTree>
- **/en/** _-- English store (Default root language)_
  - placeholders.xlsx _-- Stores tokens for text and UI components for the English US store._
  - index.docx _-- The home page of the English US store._
  - store-switcher.docx _-- Manages the list of stores and their URL for the English US store._
- **/en_ca/** _-- English Canadian Store_

>   - placeholders.xlsx _-- Stores tokens for text and UI components for the Canadian store._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - placeholders.xlsx _-- Defines tokens for text and UI components for the Canadian store._
```

  - index.docx _-- The home page of the English Canadian store._
  - store-switcher.docx _-- Manages the list of stores and their URL for the Canadian store._
</FileTree>

Default files are provided in the sample content. These files can be customized to suit your needs.

## Store-specific files

The content, placeholders, and store switcher files help define the experience in each store view as described here.

### Store Switcher

> Each store view has its own `store-switcher` fragment file to add the list of stores displayed in the store-switcher component in their corresponding language. This component renders a button in the footer that opens a modal containing the stores within the `store-switcher` document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each store view has its own `store-switcher` document file called a fragment. This fragment provides the list of stores to select from by language. The store-switcher component renders a button in the footer that opens a modal containing the stores listed in this document.
```

Start by creating a `store-switcher.docx` file containing a bulleted list inside each store view root folder. Each line must define the display name of your store with an active link to the store, as shown below:

```text
**Select a store:**

- United States (USD)
  - [United States (USD)](https://main--aem-boilerplate-commerce--hlxsites.aem.page/drafts/multistore/en/)
- Canada (CAD)
  - [Canada (EN)](https://main--aem-boilerplate-commerce--hlxsites.aem.page/drafts/multistore/en_ca/)
```

### Content files

The content files provide the structure of the pages served to your shoppers. They are located in the store view directories and contain the content for each store view. These files are typically SharePoint `.docx` or Google document files used to generate the store view pages. These files should be localized or translated into the desired language.

### Placeholders

> The `placeholders.xlsx` file stores reusable tokens for text and UI components. This file is used to define the text that is displayed on your storefront. The `placeholders.json` file is generated from this file and is used to replace the tokens in your content files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `placeholders.xlsx` file stores reusable variables for text and UI components. This file is used to define the text that is displayed on your storefront. The `placeholders.json` file is generated from this file and is used to replace the variables in your content files.
```

> Optionally, you can use [bulk metadata](https://www.aem.live/docs/bulk-metadata) to reuse the same `placeholders.xlsx` file from another store view. You can also create a `placeholders-overrides.xlsx` file to define text values that override those from the original file by setting the `placeholders` metadata on the page.

Reviewer: Add a screenshot here to show how the metadata block is used to apply the `placeholders-overrides.xlsx` file

Author: There's already a table showing that example.

## Storefront Configuration

### Folder Mapping

Product Detail Pages (PDP) are mapped to a single document at `products/default`.
When adding a new store view, you'll need to add a corresponding folder mapping for the new URLs.

#### fstab.yaml

If your project uses a `fstab.yaml` file, add the new store view mapping under the `folders:` section, like this:

```yaml
mountpoints:
  /: https://example.mountpoint.com/:f:/r/sites/myproject

folders:
  /en/products/: /en/products/default
  /en_ca/products/: /en_ca/products/default
```

#### Config Service

If your project uses the Config Service, you must update the configuration to add the new store view mapping under the `folders:` section, like this:

```json
{
  "folders": {
    "/en/products/": "/en/products/default",
    "/en_ca/products/": "/en_ca/products/default"
  }
}
```

To learn more about the Config Service, please see [aem.live's documentation](https://www.aem.live/docs/config-service-setup) or read the [api documentation](https://www.aem.live/docs/admin.html#tag/siteConfig/operation/updateConfigSite) to learn how to publish your updates to the Config Service for your site.

### Site Config

> You must update your [storefront config](/setup/configuration/commerce-configuration/) to include configuration overrides for the new store view. In this file, you'll define store view-specific settings, such as service headers and analytics values. The `key` of each override object must match the root folder path of the corresponding store view. These values will be merged into the default configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must update your [storefront config](/setup/configuration/commerce-configuration/) to include configuration overrides for the new store view. In this file, you'll define store-view specific settings, such as service headers and analytics values. The `key` of each overridden object must match the root folder path of the corresponding store view. These values will be merged into the default configuration.
```

> The `analytics` section contains the Adobe Commerce environment variables for the store view, which are used by the Analytics API. For more details, see [Analytics](/setup/analytics/instrumentation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `analytics` section contains the Adobe Commerce environment variables for the store view. These variables are used by the Analytics API. For more details, see [Analytics](/setup/analytics/instrumentation).
```

  - [Canada (EN)](https://main--aem-boilerplate-commerce--hlxsites.aem.page/drafts/multistore/en_ca/) 
```

### Content files

The content files provide the structure of the pages served to your shoppers. They are located in the store view directories and contain the content for each store view. These files are typically SharePoint `.docx` or Google document files used to generate the store view pages. These files should be localized or translated into the desired language.

### Placeholders

The `placeholders.xlsx` file stores reusable tokens for text and UI components. This file is used to define the text that is displayed on your storefront. The `placeholders.json` file is generated from this file and is used to replace the tokens in your content files. 

> Optionally, you can use [bulk metadata](https://www.aem.live/docs/bulk-metadata) to reuse the same `placeholders.xlsx` file from another store view. You can also create a `placeholders-overrides.xlsx` file to define text values that override those from the original file by setting the `placeholders` metadata on the page.

Author: @bdenham, this is an optional step. Do you think it's clear enough?

  /en_ca/products/: /en_ca/products/default`;
```

#### Config Service

If your project uses the Config Service, you must update the `default-config.json` file to add the new store view mapping under the `folders:` section, like this:

```json
{
  "folders": {
    "/en/products/": "/en/products/default",
    "/en_ca/products/": "/en_ca/products/default"
  }
}
```

> Follow the instructions in the [Storefront Configuration](/setup/configuration/commerce-configuration/) to publish your updates to the Config Service.

Reviewer 2: I see you added this - I will have to update that page to include these steps then.

I think you should instead point people to helix docs. I do not include specifics of how to manage aem config on the commerce-configuration page.

- https://www.aem.live/docs/config-service-setup
- https://www.aem.live/docs/admin.html#schema/SiteConfig
- https://www.aem.live/docs/admin.html#tag/siteConfig/operation/updateConfigSite

Create an `en_ca` store view in the Commerce Admin and perform the following steps in your project.

<Steps>

> 1. Create the `/en_ca/` folder under the project root in SharePoint or Google Drive. You can name this folder anything you want, as long as it's unique and can be used in a web address.

Reviewer: Add an example of a name that can't be used in a web address and show a corrected name that CAN be used.

Author: Done

<Steps>
1. Translate or localize content files in the `/en_ca/` folders.
1. Ensure all labels in `placeholders` file (SharePoint `.xlsx` or Google sheet) are accurately translated into the desired language.
</Steps>
</Task>

<Task>
### Update Storefront Configuration

:::note[Code Change Required]
This step requires updating configuration files in your project to support the new store view.
:::

<Steps>

> 1. Update the `fstab.yaml` file — or the `fstab` section of your [site config](https://www.aem.live/docs/admin.html#tag/siteConfig) — to include the new folder mapping for the `/en_ca/` store view. This should map to the appropriate content path (e.g., `/en_ca/products/` to `/en_ca/products/default`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Update the `fstab.yaml` file — or the `fstab` section of your [site config](https://www.aem.live/docs/admin.html#tag/siteConfig) — to include the new folder mapping for the `/en_ca/` store view. This should map to the appropriate content path. For example, `/en_ca/products/` should map to `/en_ca/products/default`.
```

> 1. Update the `config.json` file - or the `public` section of your [site config](https://www.aem.live/docs/admin.html#tag/siteConfig) - to include a new entry under in the `public` object for `/en_ca/`. Use this section to define store-specific values such as headers, analytics, and more, if they differ from the default. Make sure the key matches the folder path of your store view (e.g., `/en_ca/`). Values in this object will override those in the default configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Update the `config.json` file - or the `public` section of your [site config](https://www.aem.live/docs/admin.html#tag/siteConfig) - to include a new entry under in the `public` object for `/en_ca/`. Use this section to define store-specific values such as headers, analytics, and more, if they differ from the default. Make sure the `key` matches the folder path of your store view.  For example,  the `/en_ca/` key for your Canadian store). Values in this object will override those in the default configuration.
```

Finally, preview and publish the new store view.

<Steps>

> 1. Preview all files inthe updated folder `/en_ca/` with [AEM Sidekick](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/experience-manager-cloud-service/content/edge-delivery/resources/sidekick/sidekick).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Preview all files in the updated folder `/en_ca/` with [AEM Sidekick](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/experience-manager-cloud-service/content/edge-delivery/resources/sidekick/sidekick).
```
